feat(pie-docs): DSW-1639 add the chip docs (#1330)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/components/chip/overview/overview.md

---
eleventyNavigation:
    key: Overview
    parent: Chip
    order: 1
shouldShowContents: true
---

## Overview

The purpose of chips is to provide a visual representation of a specific entity or attribute, such as a selected option or a labelled category. Chips can also be interactive, allowing users to remove or modify the selected choices.

Chips are commonly used in various contexts, including filtering options, search results or any situation where concise and visually distinct information needs to be displayed.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/overview.svg",
    alt: "A group of chips that are horizontally stacked together."
} %}

---

## Dos and Don’ts

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.list,
        items: [
            "Chips should appear dynamically as a group of multiple interactive elements."
        ]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.list,
        items: [

>             "Don’t use when an interaction is not required, use a [tag](/components/tag/) if needed."

Reviewer: Just trying to make sure I understand the difference here between a tag (which is never interactive?) and a chip (which can possibly be non-interactive, if `isDismissible` is false)?

Would I be correct in thinking that a tag is more for describing an attribute of something, whereas a chip describes its state (with the implication that this can/does change)?

Author: Chip is always interactive, even if `isDismissible` is false.

        ]
    }
} %}

___

## Anatomy

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/anatomy.svg",
    alt: "Anatomy of the chip component.",
    width: 210
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Icon (Optional):** Non-interactive icon that can be used to visually support the string.",
        "**String:** Text label informing the user of the option/selection.",
        "**Close (optional)**: Allows the Chip to be dismissible, but the application should provide a way for them to easily add it back."
    ]
} %}

---

## Variations

### Default

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/variation-default.svg",
    alt: "The default variant of the chip component.",
    width: 63,
    variant: "secondary"
} %}

### Outline

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/variation-outline.svg",
    alt: "The outline variant of the chip component.",
    width: 63
} %}

### Ghost

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/variation-ghost.svg",
    alt: "The ghost variant of the chip component.",
    width: 63
} %}

---

## Modifiers

### Icon

> Icons are always positioned to the left of the string.

Reviewer: It would be more accurate to say that they are always in a "leading" position, and the alt text should reflect this too.

Author: @tingting-lau can you please advice here? ⭐

Reviewer 2: updated

Author: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/modifier-icon.svg",
    alt: "A chip component with a placeholder icon on the left.",
    width: 87
} %}

### Tick icon

Tick icon can be added for clarity and decision support when using chips to filter or multi-select to the selected state. 

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/modifier-tick-icon.svg",
    alt: "A chip component with a tick icon on the left.",
    width: 63
} %}

### Close icon

> Close icon can be added to the selected state to allow users to remove the selection or filter.

Reviewer: I find this slightly confusing, perhaps it's just the wording? This isn't a chip with a close icon being passed in, it's a chip with a close/dismiss button (which is a specific feature, right?)

Reviewer: To better illustrate my point - and I know this isn't the code page - the code to implement the tick and close examples above would look something like this:

---

Tick

```javascript
import { IconTick } from '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc';
import { PieChip } from '@justeattakeaway/pie-chip';
```

```html
<pie-chip>
    <slot name="icon"><icon-tick></icon-tick></slot>
    String
</pie-chip>
```

---

Close
```javascript
import { PieChip } from '@justeattakeaway/pie-chip';
```

```html
<pie-chip isDismissible>
    String
</pie-chip>
```

Author: I think this is just a matter of how it's done/used in design vs engineering. Happy to discuss it further when you're back to not block the PR 🤝

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/modifier-close-icon.svg",
    alt: "A chip component with a close icon on the right.",
    width: 63
} %}

---

## Size

Chips have a minimum width of 48px.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/size.svg",
    alt: "A chip component with the value of 1.",
    width: 48
} %}

---

## Content

- Keep the strings short so they are easy to read and scan.
- Use sentence case.

---

## Layout

> If there is a Chip grouping, by default are laid out horizontally and stack if required. A spacing of 8px is used horizontally, and 12px for vertical stacking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a Chip grouping, by default they are laid out horizontally and stack if required. A spacing of 8px is used horizontally, and 12px for vertical stacking.
```

Author: updated

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/layout-single-row.svg",
      width: 237,
      alt: "A group of chip components laid out horizontally",
      variant: "secondary"
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {

>       src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/layout-double-row.svg",

Reviewer: Personally I think this screenshot would be more helpful if the chips contained words of different lengths so that you can see it's not just a grid.

Incidentally, is there any guidance about what words or phrases you should put inside a chip? Single words only, perhaps, or are multiple words in sentence-case allowed?

Author: @tingting-lau can you please advice here? ⭐

Reviewer 2: images updated, please check the google sheet

      width: 237,

>       alt: "A group of chip components laid out horizontally and stacked",

Reviewer: I think the alt text could be more descriptive here, saying how the chips are flowing into a second row. I'm assuming the only time you would want them to stack is if the container isn't wide enough, rather than just for aesthetic reasons?

Author: updated

      variant: "secondary"
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Usage

### Input

Input chips represent information used in fields, such as an entity or different attributes.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/usage-input.svg",
    alt: "Chip components used in an input field",
    width: 256
} %}

### Choice

In sets that contain at least two options, choice chips represent a single selection.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/usage-choice.svg",
    alt: "Chip components representing various cuisines",
    width: 297
} %}

### Filter

> In sets that contain at least two options, choice chips represent a single selection.

Reviewer: It may be more of an application concern, but I think it would be good if we could spell out whether several chips can be selected at once, from a design perspective?

Author: @tingting-lau can you please advice here? ⭐

Reviewer 2: "In sets that contain at least two options, each choice chip represents a single selection. Users can select more than one chip in the set."

P.S. this should be under "Choice" section. I've edited the text for "Filter" (left you a comment in figma). @raoufswe

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/usage-filter.svg",

>     alt: "Chip components serving as a filter, each corresponding to a different weekday",

Reviewer: I think this flavour of text might make for a better screen reader experience.
```suggestion
    alt: "Four chip components serving as filters, each corresponds to a different weekday from Wednesday to Saturday. Thursday is currently selected and Saturday is greyed-out to show that it is unavailable for selection.",
```

    width: 274,
    variant: "secondary"
} %}

### Action

Action chips trigger actions related to primary content.

{% contentPageImage {

>     src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/usage-action.svg",

Author: @tingting-lau can you please take a look here? ⭐

>     src:"../../../assets/img/components/chip/usage-action.svg",

Author: updated

>     alt: "Chip components with various actions to trigger",

Author: updated

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Active</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/interactive-state-active.svg",
      width: 63,
      alt: "The active state of the chip component."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Focus</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/interactive-state-focus.svg",
      width: 63,
      alt: "The focus state of the chip component."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Disabled</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/interactive-state-disabled.svg",
      width: 63,
      alt: "The disabled state of the chip component."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Loading</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/interactive-state-loading.svg",
      width: 63,
      alt: "The loading state of the chip component."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

___

## Examples

Outlines the atomic level interactive elements for the component.

### LTR examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in left to right context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of chips in a left-to-right context:
```

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/example-ltr-menu.svg",
      width: 329,
      alt: "A left-to-right example of a cuisines filter using the chip components"
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/chip/example-ltr-offer.svg",
      width: 273,
      alt: "A left-to-right example of an offers filter using the chip components"
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

### RTL examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in right to left context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of chips in a right-to-left context:
```
